what's up guys we have a fun video for
you today we've got a ton of questions
regarding the axis art and how it
compares to the new axis Spitfire front
[Music]
wi so today Ryan and I are going to walk
you guys through the differences between
these two front Wings awesome all right
let's dive right into it first category
pumping how does the art pump compared
to the Spitfire what are the differences
that you've noticed there Cole for
pumping clear is going to be the art the
art is a sick wing for pumping because
of that high aspect design this thing
just Glides through the water minimal
effort to pump it it's a great wing for
pumping now the Spitfire isn't that far
behind it you can still pump the
Spitfire really well and i' take the
Spitfire Over a lot of other wings that
we carry here at the shop but the art is
definitely easier to pump than the
Spitfire one thing that I did notice
with the Spitfire when pumping it it
seemed like a wing that you needed if
you're winging with with it cuz
obviously you're going a little bit
faster a lot of times when you're
winging than you are prone surfing um or
other other things like that is I felt
like I had to back down my speed a
little bit with the Spitfire to get into
that pumping speed range um where I
didn't notice that quite as much with
the art it seemed like the art pumped at
a little higher speed a little faster
rate than what the Spitfire does and I
mean that makes sense looking at the
chord length here and just knowing what
we know about foils and how they perform
yeah and to add on to what Ryan said
when I was I was proning these two Wings
back to back he winged them back to back
the axis definitely is a different
technique compared to a lot of the
higher aspect wings that I've rode it's
it's this interesting Cadence and it's
really hard to describe but when you
start riding the Spitfire more and more
you you'll feel that Cadence it's almost
a little bit slower than the art just
kind of what Ryan was saying there but
you got to be careful on how aggressive
your Scoops are when you're pumping the
axis Spitfire definitely lik shallower
pumps when you're pumping on it all
right next category turning
carving art versus Spitfire what do we
got well again we have a clear winner in
this category the axis Spitfire is a
great wing for carving hands down it has
been my favorite Wing to go prone surf
with it's a very surfy front Wing I mean
you can go edge to edge in this thing so
easy and it's just that immediate
feedback and that's just something that
you don't see in these higher aspect
wings so I don't know if you felt the
same way Ryan but absolutely really easy
to get into some high-end performance in
terms of carving with the Spitfire takes
a lot more uh pressure and input into
your foil to get similar sort of
performance with the art you just have
to be so patient with the art like the
turns just take so long to develop like
yeah you you really got to throw your
weight around with the art to get it to
turn how you want it to um whereas the
Spitfire it's just a really rly
naturally fun feeling foil the next
category I think is which Wing goes
faster what your thoughts on that what
have you noticed so far Cole so when I
took these things out and I was in about
KN to waste high waves surprisingly the
Spitfire actually had a higher top end
than the art did now I'm not sure
exactly why that is cuz the higher
aspect Wing should be able to go faster
than the Spitfire but when I rode them
back to back it seemed like that
Spitfire just wanted to go it didn't
feel like the brakes were being put on
when I was ragging down the line on the
thicker parts of the wave now when
you're winging was it was it the same or
did you feel that was a little different
winging I felt like I hit the the high
end of the Spitfire um maybe a little
bit sooner than the art um but real
close uh I felt like I was hitting that
top end and then watching some footage
later on noticed that I was going a lot
faster than I thought I was going um so
it may just be part of of that just it's
such a smooth and easy to ride forgiving
foil that you end up going faster than
what you think you're going um and not
necessarily noticing it so definitely
need to spend a little more time winging
these two back to back to really have a
clear answer on that one but I would say
the Spitfire definitely has an
impressive speed range um and I wouldn't
put the art uh above it in terms of
speed like I originally thought I would
before I had ridden the Spitfire so
really impressed with the the speed in
the Spitfire uh currently I'd say it's a
it's a draw for me needs a little more
testing to uh to have a clear answer for
you on that one gotcha well on the other
side of the spectrum let's talk about
the the low end of these foils which one
did you feel like popped up on foil
earlier than the other yeah the Spitfire
clear winter here Spitfire popped up
much easier um definitely it's got a
longer cord it's a more stable popup too
um just it's definitely a lot easier to
get going with the Spitfire when you're
winging than what it is with the airt
the airt requires some speed or some
power if you're not really super powered
up you really got to get that board
speed going to come up and and ride it
um stable whereas the Spitfire not as
big of an issue there what do you think
there in terms of popping up uh prone
foiling yeah so when prone foiling one
thing I noticed was the art definitely
got up on foil at a lower speed than
Spitfire the Spitfire had to go a touch
faster to get up and on foil but what
was strange was at those lower speeds so
the very bare minimum of when that foil
is activating and coming up and out of
the water I noticed that the art was
much more stable than the Spitfire the
Spitfire was unstable at those lower
speeds more so than the the art was so
that was something I noticed something
minor but for beginner Rider that that
could make a difference interesting and
then uh going along with that stall
speed which one uh is the winner here
arer Spitfire you know this one this
one's tricky they were pretty close now
I was in some guita waste high waves and
there was a little bit of wind going on
there so I couldn't really tell you if
there was a clear winner there how do
you feel winging winging I would say
spit fires clear winter here stall speed
uh you can drop this thing down stall it
out pick up your wing and get moving
again uh whereas the art Glides forever
but once you start to slow down it's
going to drop out on you so um
definitely I would take the Spitfire uh
for for stall speed in this this
category all right and this is a fun
thing I don't know if you tried it at
all but as far as Wing outs go Wing outs
have been something that I've been
having a lot of fun with the last part
of the summer here in the early fall and
for Wing outs the spit fire I think I
had half the wing out of the water and
that thing was still ripping through the
turn which was super fun the art
definitely sucked air down the whole
Leading Edge of the wing and took me
down so the Spitfire for Wing outs
sneaky winner yeah I didn't get to do
any Wing outs with the Spitfire I have
with the art does all right I haven't
noticed that but uh looking forward to
some some bigger fall days here where I
can really test that in the Spitfire
it's a little more challenging to Wing
out on a a smaller uh wingspan there um
so you really got to got to get in some
some good conditions and really give it
its money's worth here but um yeah
that'll be fun one to try out is there
anything else between these wings that
you think everyone should know uh so
summarizing here guys the who is the art
for who is the Spitfire here
for uh cool art what kind of Rider would
like this for prone foiling yeah you
know if you're someone that's looking
for easy pumping go with the art if
you're looking to downwind go with the
art now if you're looking for that surfy
foil you can really get those turns
going you can really carve into that
wave and get the most out of it go with
the Spitfire um I think it's that simple
if you're looking to pump go with the
art if you're looking to turn go with
the Spitfire what for winging do you
think how similar thoughts for winging
here if you're looking to get into that
wave really turn
aggressively spit fires your clear
winner here um it pumps sufficiently so
if you do need to pump around a section
or something like that it will handle
that just fine now if you're looking for
some of that more downwind swell riding
gliding um especially if you're riding
swell at a decent speed I would go for
the art that's going to be your kind of
downwind style of uh front wing for for
winging all right well let us know what
you guys think in the comments section
below if you've had experience on either
of these Wings if you guys have any
other questions feel free to drop those
in the comment section below as well if
you guys want to chat with us reach out
to us via live chat phone or email you
can find all of that through our website
but until next time this has been Cole
and Ryan have a fun time shredding and
we look forward to seeing you guys in
other
[Music]
videos
yeah